Let's talk about understanding and learning kanban from the
point of view of a scrum practitioner.
Here are some key differences between kanban and agile scrum. Time‑boxing
causes artificial constraints on project changes, customer feedback,
release dates, and any process improvements.
Ideally, you want to handle issues with those topics as they arise,
but typically they're on hold into the end of the sprint, the end of
the retrospective, or even you've got to wait all the way until the
sprint planning meeting or, maybe worse,
pushed off to the following sprint. That might be okay of things run smoothly,
but as we know, projects seldom run perfectly.
That's just life.
Kanban removes the artificial sprint time‑box boundary,
and the other events, like retrospectives,
reviews, etc., while keeping the workflow moving forward smoothly.
Remove doesn't mean eliminate. Issues with workflow are discussed daily
and not put off until an agile scrum meeting or event.
Since so many of the basics of kanban are like agile scrum,
just refining your knowledge and skills without making any major adjustments,
I think, will work just fine.
So rest easy.
Transitioning to kanban should go pretty smooth for you.
Now a big plus is that kanban can identify and correct
workflow issues more quickly, which is better for the team,
better for the customer, and better for the organization.
Alright, let's continue this theme on the next slide.
Here are a few more key differences between kanban and agile scrum.
Kanban explicitly defines what done means for each step.
This is huge and creates succinct handoffs between workflow steps.
All information will be visible and trackable on the board.
Now that's not unlike agile scrum,
but yet it's still different. With agile scrum, the visual
boards are only visual control systems,
and the boards do not reflect or support limiting work in progress and no
signaling mechanism to move work forward, and kanban does both.
Each step will have two columns, work in progress,
WIP, and done, including the done rules, in other words what it
means to be done. When the item arrives in the done bucket, that is
the signal that work can move forward.
Now each work‑in‑progress column will have limits on how much
work can be in progress, and so you can also see visually the
limits on the board and determine any adjustments to make, both
extremely powerful concepts.
Intrigued? Well good. Much more to come on those topics.
Kanban is always focused on value‑driven outcomes and the elimination of waste.
The work in progress limits and done rules enable and
drive early issue identification,
and the design of kanban enables a continuous workflow.
So if you think about it, it's like having one continuous sprint.
Think about it for a minute.
Interesting, huh?
One continuous flow.
Let's emphasize the benefits of using work‑in‑progress limits and done rules.
Every work item is production‑ready the day it is completed.
There are clear done rules through each step of development,
each step of your workflow process.
There are no artificial time boundaries, that is no
time‑boxing. Customer feedback is welcome daily,
and there is no waiting for an end‑of‑sprint demo or sprint planning meeting. Each and every day is value added.